welcome to the super cheap Ordo
do-it-yourself tip for changing
transmission fluid first warm up the
transmission fluid by idling or driving
the vehicle raise the vehicle and make
sure that it's level and stable do a
visual inspection for leaks from the
transmission most transaxles have drain
plugs fitted to them that are easily
accessible
however some require that a housing be
removed in order to drain well other
types do not have drain plugs and
require a suction part to draw out the
lubricant by hand from filling point
consult the vehicle menu for the correct
procedure for draining the fluid on the
vehicle you're working
be careful because the lubricant can be
hot enough to burn locate the position
of the drain plug and remove any guard
covers if necessary select the correct
spinner and loosen the plug then
position a large diameter drain pan
under the transmission
clean the plug and then remove it with
an automatic transmission
if there's no drain plug loosen all the
transmission pan bolts with the correct
spanner or socket and remove all but
three that's the minimum number needed
to hold the pen in place fluid will flow
into the drain pan
once the fluid stops flowing from the
bolt holes support the transmission pan
with one hand and remove the remaining
bolts to drain the remaining oil look
for metal in the floor this will look
like shining particles or flakes
if the transmission has been overfilled
during service it could have caused
damage to internal components also
inspect the transmission pan and the
residue in it a small amount of metal
deposits is normal but a buildup could
be a sign of transmission where if you
do find larger pieces of metal pieces of
clutch material that look a lot like
brake lining material in the case of
automatic transmission there may have
been some damage caused inside the
transmission and you should have it
checked out on expert
with an automatic transmission carefully
remove the oil pan gasket don't use a
sharp tool that could damage the sealing
surface clean the pan with a lint-free
cloth and remove the transmission filter
filters and screens may be held in place
by screws of varying sizes be careful to
note any size differences of the screws
so you can reinstall them in the correct
position if you have a paper or cotton
filter in the transmission it must be
changed every time you change the
transmission fluid
metal furs can be cleaned with a solvent
or spray cleaner and reused after drying
install the new filter to the drive body
as described in the manual place the new
gasket on the sealing surface of the
fluid pan apply the manufacturers
recommended ceiling to the gasket if
needed replace the transmission or some
pan and tighten the bolts to the
manufacturers specified torque over
tightening the bolts may cause damage to
the gasket and/or the sealing surfaces
after the lubricant is completely
drained clean the drain plug put the
drain plug back with a new washer use a
torque wrench to make sure the torque is
correct check the manual for the correct
replacement fluid specification and the
correct quantity
if the filling location is under the
bonnet you'll have to lower the vehicle
clean the nozzle of the lubricant pump
with a lint-free rag or paper towel use
the pump to put new transmission fluid
into the filler hole or dipstick tube
opening pause for a few seconds after
each pump to give the lubricant time to
flow to pour
stop when lubricant reaches the top of
the Philip like hole or to the top of
the colemak
on the dipstick
Kim case' automatic transmission start
the engine
apply the foot brake and move the
transmission selector through all the
gear selections this will allow all the
candidates in the transmission to fill
with new fluid place the transmission in
the correct gear for fluid checking
check the new fluid level and adjust if
necessary and replace the dipstick or
filler plug now you know a bit more
about how to do it yourself thanks
they're super cheap order and remember
you're pretty sure to find everything
you need for the job at your local super
cheap auto store